As of repeated several times now, we're going to create a cluster IP service to allow access to our
post pod and one for event bus as well.
So let's get to it.
Back inside my editor, we can either create a new file to house these two services, or, I should
say one file for each service.
Or alternatively, we can just write out the configuration for each cluster IP service directly into
the appropriate deployment file.
Personally, I kind of like to co-locate my deployment configuration and the IP service that maps up
to it.
And the reason for that is that we usually end up with a 1 to 1 mapping between cluster IP services
and the deployments that they are allowing access to.
So it kind of makes sense in my mind to co-locate all this stuff.
But you will find that other people like to create a separate file for every single service, or I should
say, every single object inside their Kubernetes cluster.
So it's really up to you.
But at least in this course, we're going to co-locate all this configuration.
That means that inside of my event bus deployment file, I'm going to go down to the very bottom of
the file and we're going to write out the configuration to create this new cluster IP service right
here.
To create multiple objects inside of a single YAML file.
We add on dash, dash, dash, and then just go down to the next line.
So we will write out our configuration for the cluster IP service starting right here.
The configuration that we're going to write out is going to look just about identical to what we wrote
out already inside the post CSV file.
So let's get to it.
To create this cluster IP service, we'll say API version B one.
Hind is going to be service.
Metadata is going to have a name of event bus CRV.
I'll then create a spec inside of here.
We're going to once again set up a selector that's going to tell the service what pods it is going to
allow access to.
So in this case, we want to use or we want to make sure that we tell the service to direct any incoming
traffic to the pod with a label of event which we app event, dash bus.
So that's going to be the label that we're going to look for right there.
So we will provide that label to the selector field.
So EP Event, Dash Plus.
Next up, we can optionally specify a type of cluster IP three, and I say optionally is that if we
do not specify a type for the service, Kubernetes will default to creating a cluster IP service for
us.
So we can delete that altogether if we want to.
And we will just go ahead and get a cluster IP service.
It is 100% up to you whether or not you want to write out the full type or just rely upon the default
behavior.
For me personally, I think I'll go with the default.
So I'm not going to include it.
And then finally we'll set up our ports.
As a quick reminder, the event bus application itself, if we open up its implementation, specifically
the index file, this thing is listening to incoming traffic on Port 4005.
So we just need to make sure that we specify a port of 4005 in the port configuration.
So I'll put a dash in, say name, event bus.
Protocol of TCP.
Then a port of 4005 and a target port of 4005 like so.
And that should be it.
So I'm going to save this file and then going to go back over to my terminal and I'll try to apply it
right away.
I'm still inside of my card's directory and I'll do a little apply.
Event.
Bus Depot, Yamal.
Once I run that command, you'll see that Kubernetes now understands that there are two objects that
we are defining inside that config file.
The event plus deployment has been unchanged.
So although we tried to apply some changes, we haven't actually or apply that same file again, we
haven't actually made any changes to the deployment.
But Kubernetes did realise that the event bus service was brand new and so it listed as being created.
We should now be able to do a queue CTL, get services and see our event bus service right there.
And it should have a type of cluster IP.
Awesome.
That looks pretty good.
So now we're going to repeat that same process for our posts as well.
Before we do so, however, you'll recall that we already created a node port right here.
And it's already using this name of post CRV.
So we just need to be aware that once we create a second service.
That's going to direct to this post pod right here once we create this second cluster IP in addition
to the node port.
That already points to it.
We just need to make sure that we use some slightly different names.
Otherwise, Kubernetes is going to think that we want to try to change the existing node port service
into a cluster IP.
It's all I mean to say is we just need to use a different name than the one that we already used inside
this post ZV file.
I'm going to open up the post-deployment file and once again, we're going to write out the cluster
IP service that's going to allow access to the pod created for this deployment down here at the very
bottom.
So I'll put in dash, dash, dash.
And then rather than writing all this stuff out again, let's just do some copy paste.
I'm going to go back over to the event event plus deployment file.
I'm going to copy everything down here.
Go down to a post dash deployment and paste it all in.
And then finally, I'll change the name of this cluster IP service to.
Hosts.
Cluster IP dash CRV.
So again, that's just going to distinguish between the existing post service that we've already created.
Well, then make sure that I update the selector right here to posts and I'll update the name of the
port to posts as well.
Finally recall that we have some different ports for our post application.
If we open up the post index file, this thing lists traffic on port 4000.
We just have to make sure that we update that port.
And that should be it.
So I'll save this file.
And once again, we'll go over to our terminal.
And we'll do a cube to apply those devil HTML.
Oh, don't forget the F on their dash f.
So we've now created that cluster IP service that points over to posts.
And if I do it, it'll get services.
Yep.
There it is right there.
All right.
Once again, I want to repeat that.
I know a lot of this stuff seems tedious right now.
And as soon as you get through this one time of doing all this stuff by hand, a lot of it is going
to get way, way easier.
And again, I want to also repeat that I'm sure a lot of this Kubernetes stuff seems kind of pointless
right now.
You might be saying there is no way all this trouble is worth it.
But trust me, once we get a really good Kubernetes flow going, adding in new stuff or new components
to our microservices application is going to be an absolute breeze, so I can't repeat it enough.
It's really just some one time pain to learn the stuff and we're almost done anyhow.
Okay.
So this is looking pretty good.
We have now gone through building an image.
We push the image, we create the deployment.
We create the cluster IP services.
Now we just have to do one last little step to wire this stuff up.
And then our to event bus and posts or the these two pods will be able to communicate with each other
very easily.
So a quick pause and I'll see you in just a minute.